---
layout: default
title: Image cropping tool
created: 1355331435
---
<p>My first project at 5RingsWeb was about to create a webshop for whiteboard retail dealer with drupal commerce. The client sells whiteboard and plexiframe inserts. So far it seemed that i just need to click some on commerce interface. After a while turned out that the client sells these boards with customizable area. So the client uploads a board image, selects an area on this image, and the customer will fill out this area with his/her own image. That&#39;s great i thought. Let&#39;s find a proper jQuery library to&nbsp; handle all these stuff.<br /><br />After a quick googeling i found a wonderful jQuery plug in. ImageAreaSelect library (http://odyniec.net/projects/imgareaselect/) gave me exactly what i wanted.<br /><br />&nbsp;<br /><br />And beside this it has a very good easy to handle documentation.<br /><br />At the first step i created a new jQuery library and i added to the product creation form. The product&nbsp; entity has got some new fields:<br /><br />board &ndash; an image field where the clients will select the customizable area</p><p>Text fields to store the seelection dimensions:</p><ul><li>width</li><li>height</li></ul><p>Text fields to store the coordinates</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>x1</li><li>y1</li><li>x2</li><li>y2</li></ul><p><br /><br /><br />As the client selects the customizable area the dimension and coordinates values update.<br /><br />The second step is to let the customer to upload his/her photo and customize the selected board. So i added the imageAreaSelect library to the product display as well. But before finish we had to solve the problem how to select an area on image and preview the section on the board. In the end we decided to use the colorbox module to display the board and the user&#39;s image.<br /><br /><br /><br />In this case the selection dimensions and coordinates were stored in the add to cart form hidden fields. Submitting the add to cart form a new image will be created from the original user image contains only the selected area.<br /><br />In the end we got an easy to handle tool for product customization. For the future i need to figure out how to generalize this module and share with the Drupal community<br /><br />Pretty much that was all.<br /><br /><br />&nbsp;</p>
