---
layout: default
title: Proposals for Drupalcon Portland - sessions you've never seen anywhere else
created: 1361212445
---
<p>The session proposal deadline for Drupalcon Portland just passed, and we got ours in just in time! In writing these proposals, we talked a lot internally about how every year, there were certain sessions that <strong>someone</strong> would do. Every year there&#39;s a basics of business talk. Every year, there&#39;s a basics of caching talk. So&nbsp;worked hard to think of presentations that we could offer, which are totally unique. This is the stuff that hasn&#39;t been seen at Drupalcons in the past - at least as far as we remember. So you might want to keep an eye out for these sessions:</p><h3>&nbsp;</h3><h3><a href="http://portland2013.drupal.org/session/outsourcing-drupal-360%C2%BA-view">Outsourcing Drupal - a 360 Degree View</a></h3><p>We have a close relationship with our team of developers - many of whom happen to work with a development firm in Budapest, Hungary. The relationship is close enough that we thought it was kind of funny to even call it &quot;outsourcing,&quot; but that&#39;s what it is. The reality is that American Drupal talent is scarce, highly paid, and often not as hard working as talent in other parts of the world. Lots of small shops need to outsource. So we&#39;re going to talk about successful outsourcing relationships from the perspective of the&nbsp;<strong>outsourcer</strong>. And then our partner firm will blow your mind by talking about the same relationship from the perspective of the&nbsp;<strong>outsourcee</strong>. We&#39;re planning to give you total insight into how a successful outsourcing relationship can work, from both sides of the team. So if your projects are growing and you&#39;re having a hard time scaling your team as fast as your needs dictate, this session is a must see.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><a href="http://portland2013.drupal.org/session/outsourcing-drupal-360%C2%BA-view">P</a><a href="http://portland2013.drupal.org/session/project-management-processes-get-your-efficiency">roject Management Processes - Get Your Efficiency On</a></h3><p>Every year we see a handful of project management oriented sessions go up. They&#39;re usually hawking one PM method or another, and they always have fun names for different players and stages in development. I&#39;ve been to a few of these, and every time I come out feeling like it&#39;s going to revolutionise the way I manage projects. Every year I try to put it into practice, and every year I find out the failings the hard way. The truth is, project management dogma is still dogma. Sometimes it feels like the only way&nbsp;<em>really successful</em> project managers learn, is from experience. Have we got the session for you!</p><p>This session is about Matthew Saunders showing off his battle wounds. Matthew Saunders (yes,&nbsp;<em>that</em>&nbsp;Matthew Saunders) has more than 18 years of technical project management experience. This is a guy who has literally been doing this since the transition to Windows 95 was a thing. He&#39;s worked in all sorts of environments, under all sorts of methodologies: waterfall, agile, cowboy, and everything in between. And the funny thing is, he&#39;s come out of it smiling. Because his methodology absorbs all the others. Matthew discusses the strengths and weaknesses of various popular methodologies, and helps you understand how to mix and match methodologies in a situationally appropriate way. I&#39;ve seen a lot of PM sessions, but his is the only one that shows you how to use multiple methodologies at once to find PM Nirvana.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><a href="http://portland2013.drupal.org/session/creating-drupal-co-op-ins-and-outs">Creating a Drupal Co-op - the Ins and Outs</a></h3><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><a href="http://portland2013.drupal.org/session/hardcore-drupal-caching-cache-me-if-you-can">Hardcore Drupal Caching - Cache Me if You Can</a></h3><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3><a href="http://portland2013.drupal.org/session/devops-101-building-development-environment-drupal-shop">Devops 101: Building a Development Environment for a Drupal Shop</a></h3><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p>
