---
layout: default
title: 'Cache Me If You Can: Cache Bins'
created: 1367579830
---
<p>&nbsp;</p><p>As some of you may have heard, we're planning a cache shootout BoF for PDX 2013. This will be an&nbsp;<strong>advanced</strong>,&nbsp;<strong>in-depth</strong>,&nbsp;<strong>serious Drupalist</strong>&nbsp;dive into the various caching backends available for Drupal, their relative strengths, and how to profile a site's needs for the optimal caching setup. In preparation, we're running benchmarks so that we can have&nbsp;<strong>lots of numbers</strong>&nbsp;to throw at you. And that means blog posts! One for each of the common caching systems - and a first post about the different cache bins.</p><h3>About Cache Bins</h3><p>Today's post is about the various&nbsp;<b>Cache Bins</b> offered by Drupal 7 core and major contrib modules. Since D6's cache_router module was integrated into Drupal 7 core, site administrators can now combine multiple caching backends to power their site, specifying a backend for each kind of cache used by the site. These subdivisions in the site's cache are called "cache bins", and any module can easily <a href="http://api.drupal.org/api/drupal/includes%21cache.inc/interface/DrupalCacheInterface/7">implement new ones</a>. Drupal core provides a handful of cache bins, and there are some common contrib modules that provide others. In today's post we will review each of them in turn, and identify their unique qualities.&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Drupal core provides a handful of cache bins itself. &nbsp;These are:</p><ul><li>cache</li><li>cache_block</li><li>cache_bootstrap</li><li>cache_field</li><li>cache_filter</li><li>cache_form</li><li>cache_menu</li><li>cache_page</li><li>cache_path</li><li>cache_update</li></ul><p>These are pretty clearly named, but we'll cover each one individually. There are some contrib modules that offer their own cache bins. The ones we'll cover are:</p><ul><li>cache_views</li><li>cache_views_data</li><li>cache_entity_* (Entity Cache module provides several sub-bins)</li></ul><h3>Methodology</h3><p>For all of our tests we'll use an AWS "Small" instance, with one CPU core and 1.7GB memory. We chose this configuration because it is realistic for many small hosting environments, and because when a particular caching method is particularly CPU- or memory-constrained, we want to know about it. We may demonstrate that this is the case by running a second "bonus" test on a larger instance size. We will use an out-of-the-box CentOS configuration of Apache, PHP5, and MySQL running on the same server together.&nbsp;</p><p>Enough overview: let's get to the bins!</p><h3>&nbsp;</h3><p>&nbsp;</p>
